=pod

=head1 NAME

rastaadd - Add to RASTA description files.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    rastaadd [--file <system_file>] [-v | --verbose] <addition_file>

    rastaadd -h

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rastaadd> is a tool to add screens and paths to RASTA description
files.  It addes the specified screens and paths, then validates the
resulting description file.  If the file is valid, it then saves the
new version.  The description can then be used with the new screens
available.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--file E<lt>system_fileE<gt>> 

Specifies the description file to act on.  This defaults to
Z<>@RASTA_DIR@/system.rasta.

=item B<-h | --help>

Display help text and exit.

=item B<-v | --verbose>

Describes what it is doing in a verbose manner.

=item B<E<lt>addition_fileE<gt>>

Specifies file containing the description additions.  These well be
added to the main description file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<rastadel(1)>

=head1 NOTES

B<rastaadd> also accepts the GNU-style --help and --version options in
order to behave as expected in those situations.

=head1 VERSION

B<rastaadd> version Z<>@VERSION@ (30 November 2001)

=head1 HISTORY

=over 4

=item Version 0.1.0

Initial version.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Joel Becker        E<lt>joel.becker@oracle.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright E<169> 2001 Oracle Corporation, Joel Becker.
All rights reserved.

This program is free software; see the file COPYING in the source
distribution for the terms under which it can be redistributed and/or
modified.

=cut
